Hello, this is a project from the HDA in Cardiff and it's about the memories, the people, the
recollections of how life was in Cardiff Bay, the docks and Bute Town in days gone by within
living memory. And we'd like to say thank you to Heritage Lottery for providing that
bit of funding that allowed us to undertake this short project. This is part three of
the recollections of June Wagstaff, former landlady of the paddle steamer, the Boatsun,
amongst many other things. Now the quality on this isn't as good as we would want it
to be. The problem is during Covid we had to do these recordings over the phone, over
mobile phone and this I think is the only one that wasn't totally and absolutely clear.
But it is worth a listen. June is one of those people who was the heart of Tiger Bay, one
of the members of families and groups that made the place, well simply that, they made the place.
This is June Wagstaff, this is part three. First time I had a banana was at Barry Dock.
Yeah, actually that's how we had the banana contract from Barry Dock. For donkeys we had battles,
we had suit battles and suit shots. So we had the banana contract and we used to feed all the other battles
and we'd buy a lot and we'd buy our home, right, Nima? Oh yeah, we used to have a certain
large mom as well. No, they don't like their estuipine. They're a bit priceless now.
When there was Christmas, people in all of the fruit markets would along there
and then I'd be there with my father, with bananas, they got to have it kept at the same temperature.
There used to be long wooden boxes then and they used to put those night lights in there
to keep them at the same temperature. But today the bananas in the supermarkets,
they go black and they're dirty, that's terrible. And the taste is not good. Well I tend to buy them
green now because they only do ripe in a couple of days you know. Yeah, but when you think about
those things, the simple things that appeared around the docks that other people didn't
really see as much, you know, some of the food and stuff like that. No, but then they weren't interested
in the whole lot of them because you know what, I'm telling you, near the entry house, they'd always be
on the coat for the kids, you know. A lot of the kids didn't, it was just there for them, you know, and it was in line.
You know, they'd keep it to the kids. I feel sorry for the kids today, they haven't been,
well we all have, I haven't been taken to. I'm still the same, no, I'm black with bananas thinking
why I'm cooking so cheap. Yeah. It's a habit. And I don't know about you, but as you get older as well
and you're cooking and there may be just the one of you or two of you, I can't cook for one.
No. I try, I try, but I can't get it right. I can cook for a family.
Oh, there's no such thing as pork or pork or something, you know, I must go think some things later.
Yeah. Because my daughter runs the carves radio.
Oh right, yeah, of course, I've spoken to her once. Do you know her? I don't know her, I've spoken to her I think once.
Yeah, we asked her to give me a ring, but I don't ask her to give you one, but because I don't know.
No, I think I've got her number, but we'll see anyway. But yeah, yeah, I think it, what I'm interested in
and we're interested in on the project is, is the history and it's just disappearing. Yeah.
And that, that's what the point of this was. It isn't really, it's a bit odd really.
Because it's, it's like I've done the most sound ones, because it's really nice.
You do, you sell Welsh also June from the bay. You can read it.
But, but people need to hear the voices. But that comes from jobs.
They need to hear that. You know what I mean? They need to hear the accent.
The accent. The way people talk.
You don't change your accent. It's not the same now.
You adapt so you can hear what you're talking about.
All over Cardiff.
Yeah.
No, it's odd, you know.
Oh yeah, yeah.
So you're moving up the road now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
My family moved up the road.
Oh, you're doing great.
Great, great, great.
Yeah, yeah.
I'd like, I mean, I've lived with anybody.
Yeah, well, Port was the next one up the road this time.
Yeah, we just drive through.
The pub's gone now. It's not here.
Drive through Dynaponte.
Yeah, that's right.
Yes.
My family.
I used to drive to Cardiff nearly every day because my mother was still going to the doctor, you know.
I knew just how I'd gone to Australia when I went to Pantry.
What you going up there for?
A lot of people have got family up the valleys, haven't they?
I mean, I've got family.
My granddad became a miner. He's buried in Gatlinger.
Yeah.
But we, you know, we went, the people went where the work was as well.
Of course.
Of course. Yeah. Of course they did.
The men never stopped working and the women never stopped working.
No, no. No.
Because if there's any of those old families of mine who say I can't do this, my family and I was all night to see, they went to times.
But I still watch it again.
Yeah.
Well, the husband's just gone.
But I think, I think the people from the valleys, and you'll have seen them come to your pubs.
They get...
Oh yeah.
...come to Cardiff, particularly on a match day, and they're more comfortable.
They were more comfortable, you know, the men from the valleys going to the bay than they were drinking in the middle of town.
People are welcome.
Oh yeah.
People welcomed them.
Well, when I was at the pub in Oxford this time, they said we'd be waiting for you all our lives.
No, no, no.
We make a lot of friends at night.
And men are just all type of people, you know.
A good sense of humor.
Yeah.
That's the thing.
Without humor, you'd never survive.
Oh no. No.
No.
I mean, I've got friends who say I don't understand what people say in Wales.
I say, what do you mean?
What does now in a minute mean?
What...
What?
What does...
Someone said the other day to me, I'll go to our house.
I said, well, you go to your house.
I said, what does it...
What do these little phrases mean?
I said, well, we should know, and we think they're as funny as you do, but that's not the point.
No.
Oh yeah, because I'm good at singing.
I'm good at singing.
Yeah, never mind.
So, you've...
You've...
Obviously, you got married to your husband.
We're only the second husband now.
Yeah.
I have two children for my first.
You're right.
And I got one for my second.
And grandchildren, obviously.
Boy, they're lots, yeah.
I got two granddaughters and three grandsons.
And my daughter got two children, and my son got three children.
So we're well blessed with grandchildren.
Well, I got great-grandchildren.
And they...
Well, you could go to them.
You know, you wouldn't need to go to them.
Oh, no.
I don't know.
I'm just trying to get over it.
What does it feel like?
Because I wanted to talk to her.
Having grandchildren.
Yes, she's lovely, Rachel.
I go to two of my great-grandchildren.
She got a mother and a boy.
I bet you never picked one.
No, of course I didn't.
It's funny how I spend so much time with my wife.
I don't know if I did that long.
Hang on, I'm in a desk, going now.
And I confuse this with me.
I'm just hoping I'll be like my father.
It's funny, isn't it?
Right, yeah.
I'm just being this...
As my friend of mine said the other day...
This is another thing I don't like about getting old.
I'm only doing this despite the government.
No, I can't remember.
I'm not even talking about my life.
You say that.
I guess in old age pension, that's about all.
And then, you know, we've got a quite a good lifestyle, haven't we?
So, you work in the middle of the day.
You're working from the valleys now, then?
Well, I can do...
Is all your family gone from the valley?
They're all in the valley.
So, it's just me here.
I've got grandchildren as well.
And I'm in no hurry to have great grandchildren.
Let me be clear.
Well, I love them, but they just came.
I adore them.
I do. I love them.
My children, my grandchildren, and my great-grandchildren.
I love them. I love them.
Well, I mean, soon, hopefully,
at least for the summer,
we might be able to have gatherings again.
Yes!
It's lovely.
That's something the Bay's famous for as well, isn't it?
Funerals.
Oh, my God, yes.
Yes.
I did the Ticacus funeral. It was huge.
So, which pub were you running?
The Barber's Funeral.
Ah, the Barber's Funeral. That makes sense, doesn't it?
Yes.
Paddle steamer for a musician to have the funeral.
That makes real sense.
Yes.
Well, I was in school with one of these daughters.
We got one daughter, Sir Donny,
she's the eldest, the daughter of Donny.
And there's another younger daughter,
Janice, she was in Charleston, I believe.
But I haven't seen her for a long time.
And I was in school with Josie.
Right.
She was born in the same street as me
and during the day we all came to the funeral.
Yeah, my mother wouldn't go.
That's why we were the last house in the street.
No, so we went from there,
my grandmother, to the hottest floor.
We went upstairs, Masonette,
but she didn't really like it there.
She died while we were living there,
my grandmother.
And my mother then
didn't like it,
because she'd gone off to Christina Street.
You call it Christina Street
and we all would go to Christina Street.
It's the same as Sophia Street.
No, Sophia.
Yeah, Sophia Street.
Yeah, Sophia Street,
Mariah Street.
Yeah.
But it's like, you know, my Nan used to stand up,
she used to lean
having a cup of tea
outside the house on the steps.
Yeah.
Everybody had passed by.
You can't do that in a Masonette.
No, no.
It's a full house.
Yeah.
You know, you could always,
as the women,
we were still 1952.
I think we were the first women in the street
to have a child with them.
And then, the big one,
I was sitting on the corner with the shawls
with the kids playing, and they'd chat with us.
And that's all they had.
I think the grounds were never empty once you got the first telly.
No, no.
No, no. It was like a similar one now.
Now, I used to come on going to those clubs.
Yeah.
You know, when she just started.
And we used to come in.
Particularly on a sports event.
Yeah.
My mum, we had a telly when we were living
in the East End of London.
And it was about the third in the street.
And on Grand National Day
or FA Cup final day,
you couldn't move in your own house.
No.
You couldn't go because you couldn't move your feet.
And it was no good if you were a kid come back.
Say, no, I was sitting there.
Well, you're not now.
No, I know.
Yeah.
I don't know if you want to talk.
Okay, let me finish by asking you a question, right?
And I ask everybody this.
Okay, so you've got someone
near sat at one of those
places on Mermaid,
what's it, you know, the new...
Mermaid school.
Yeah, the new place where there's
the restaurants and the pub,
you know, all of that.
What was the dogs?
What would you say to them
they should know about the place
that they're
that they've just got
passed through to get there and sit down?
And you talk about music and that?
Yeah, it was fabulous.
Because those pubs...
That's all I can say, you know.
Those pubs don't have music.
Those pubs don't even have music,
most of them.
No, not anymore.
But a lot of pubs did when I was young.
Yeah.
Okay, June,
I'm pleased we were finally
managed to speak to each other
and I'm grateful.